TAGS:具体的问题|智能指针|ownership|borrowing|reference

built-in type就是能放在寄存器和栈上使用的类型
- int
- float

[Smart pointers](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/second-edition/ch15-00-smart-pointers.html)

> A pointer is a general concept for a variable that contains an address in memory

> reference don’t have any special abilities other than referring to data.They also don’t have any overhead, so they’re used the most often.

通常指针在栈上指向堆内存,指针(显式或隐式调用)用于方法调用.一般来说最好由编译器或虚拟机来管理,reference.用户概念上认为两者等价即可,不需要感知到指针的存在.因此也不要对reference做指针运算.

> Smart pointers, on the other hand, are **data structures** that act like a pointer, but they also have additional **metadata** and **capabilities**

>  the reference counting smart pointer type enables you to have **multiple owners** of data.

> The reference counting smart pointer keeps track of how many owners there are, and when there aren’t any remaining, the smart pointer takes care of cleaning up the data

智能指针与所有权有关
所有权可以概括为对内存的权限
- 读
- 写

> In Rust, where we have the concept of ownership and borrowing, an additional difference between references and smart pointers is that **references are a kind of pointer that only borrow data**; by contrast, in many cases, **smart pointers own the data that they point to**.

引用的传递是借用,借用的权限传递规则是?

> We’ve actually already encountered a few smart pointers in this book, such as **String and Vec<T>**

所有proxy class都可以看作指针,不完全拥有所有成员字段的所有权的对象?

> Smart pointers are usually implemented using structs. The characteristics that distinguish a smart pointer from an ordinary struct are that smart pointers implement the **Deref** and **Drop** traits. The Deref trait allows an instance of the smart pointer struct to **behave like a reference** so that we can write code that works with either references or smart pointers. The Drop trait allows us to **customize the code** that gets run when an instance of the smart pointer goes out of scope. 

# Box<T>

分析清楚所处的场景和需求,选择合适的特性.
1. When you have a type whose size can’t be known at **compile time**, and you want to use a value of that type **in a context** that needs to **know an exact size**
2. When you have a large amount of data and you want to transfer ownership but ensure the data won’t be copied when you do so
3. When you want to own a value and only care that it’s a type that implements a particular trait rather than knowing the concrete type itself

# Rc<T>

有哪些信息是我们在编译期就能确定的?这些信息深深影响着程序的设计

> Rc<T> is used when we want to allocate some data on the heap for multiple parts of our program to read, and we can’t determine at compile time which part will finish using the data last. **If we did know which part would finish last, we could just make that the owner of the data and the normal ownership rules enforced at compile time would kick in**.


> Note that Rc<T> is only for use in **single-threaded** scenarios; Chapter 16 on concurrency will cover how to do reference counting in multithreaded programs.

> Rc<T> allows us to share data between multiple parts of our program for reading only, via **immutable references**. If Rc<T> allowed us to have multiple mutable references too, we’d be able to violate one of the borrowing rules that we discussed in Chapter 4: multiple mutable borrows to the same place can cause data races and inconsistencies. But being able to mutate data is very useful! In the next section, we’ll discuss the interior mutability pattern and the RefCell<T> type that we can use in conjunction with an Rc<T> to work with this restriction on immutability.

# RefCell<T>

> Interior mutability is a design pattern in Rust for allowing you to mutate data even when there are immutable references to that data, normally disallowed by the borrowing rules. To do so, the pattern uses unsafe code inside a data structure to bend Rust’s usual rules around mutation and borrowing. We haven’t yet covered unsafe code


了解rules,知道在什么时候打破它.编译器不是全能的
> We can choose to use types that make use of the interior mutability pattern when **we can ensure that the borrowing rules will be followed at runtime**, even though the **compiler can’t ensure that**.